Resources: [Python Install Manager](https://apps.microsoft.com/detail/9nq7512cxl7t?hl=en-US&gl=US)

Python is a high level programming language probably used the most by data scientists and AI engineers. It is light weight and powerful in the ability to do complex operations with very little code. It is an interpreted language that needs a kernel to understand and execute `.py` source code
Steps to install Python:

<table>
    <thead><tr><th>OS</th><th>Steps</th></tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
    <tr><td valign="top">Windows</td><td><ol>
        <li>Click on <i>Start</i> button and type "Store". Click on the <i>Microsoft Store</i> app that shows up.</li>
        <li>In <i>Microsoft Store</i> search for "python install manager" and select the most recent version that shows up (i.e. <i>Python 3.13</i>) then click <i>Get</i>.</li>
    </ol></td></tr>
    <tr><td valign="top">Mac OS</td><td><ol>
        <li>TODO - Add content</li>
    </ol></td></tr>
    <tr><td valign="top">Linux</td><td><ol>
        <li>TODO - Add content</li>
    </ol></td></tr></tbody>
</table>

----
<u>Verification</u>: If all went well you should be able to verify the version of the kernel and its installation command by doing the following:
- [ ] Launch a terminal window. (In Windows: Start menu > type "**git-bash**")
- [ ] In terminal verify the following commands are running as shown below:

```
    Florin@Polaris MINGW64 ~
    $ python --version
    Python 3.14.5

    Florin@Polaris MINGW64 ~
    $ pip --version
    pip 26.1.1 from C:\Users\Florin\AppData\Local\Python\pythoncore-3.14-64\Lib\site-packages\pip (python 3.14)

    Florin@Polaris MINGW64 ~
    $
```

<u>Note</u>: If you already have python on your computer, please verify the commands above. There are many versions and different venues to install them from, there's a chance your version may not work properly with the rest of the software we are setting up. If the verification fails, please uninstall your version and follow the steps from above. 